- [Instructor] All right.
All talk and no code makes Johnny a dull boy.
Let's take a look at it.
Let's get started with Docker now.
Now you are on a Linux or a Mac or a Windows
and you want to get started.
So let's take a look at it, first of all, on Linux.
As we mentioned earlier,
Docker is a native Linux technology.
So it's supported on several Linux distributions,
on pretty much all the common ones.
There is a quick and easy install
that can be very easily done.
So let's say you get a brand new Ubuntu Box
or a Centos Box or you spin up a new VM on AWS
and you want to install it.
Just give this single command and on get.docker.com,
you correlate and you run the script.
It'll download the the latest Docker version for you.
It'll install the Docker engine.
It'll have the CLI, all the tools ready for you to roll.
That's very easy.
Now, I would also recommend go to get.docker.com,
which is a URL that you can visit in your browser;
and in the browser there are other URLs it'll show you
if you want to install a test version
or an experimental version,
which we'll talk about in a second, okay?
So now this is quick and easy install,
but that's typically not what people do
when they go into production.
So there are certain OS-specific instructions
because you want to add the repository.
You want to make sure you download
from the right repository and stuff like that.
So all those detailed instructions are available
on the URL that's shown on the screen at this point in time.
So I would recommend, depending upon what's your use case,
pick quick and easy install or OS-specific instructions.
All right, now, Linux is easy;
now, how do we get started with Docker for Mac and Windows.
Docker for Mac and Windows is a native application
and a user interface.
What that means is you go to a URL,
you download the Docker for Mac or Windows;
that provides a very native, seamlessly integrated
experience on that particular operating system.
It's a very Mac-like experience,
very Windows-like experience;
and we'll see that a little bit later in this chapter.
The UI or the tool is automatically updated,
so let's say you have a particular version of Docker
and a new version is released in the back end, you know,
by Docker, then the tool will automatically update.
So you don't have to worry about it.
You can configure it to be auto update,
or you can manually update it.
The good thing about Docker for Mac and Windows is
there are no additional software required like VirtualBox.
We will look at Docker toolbox,
which will require an additional software.
That's how everybody is starting these days.
They just download Docker for Mac or Windows,
and they get started with that.
And how does it work?
Well, because Docker is a native Linux technology.
Well, on Mac, particularly starting Yosemite,
and they have hypervisor.framework.
So on OS X essentially, it creates a xhyve VM;
and on Windows, it uses Hyper-V VM.
Those are both hypervisor frameworks
built into the operating system,
and that's why you don't need any additional software
for installation of Docker.
How do we get started?
You go to docker.com/getdocker,
and there are links which say, okay,
download the docker and then get started with it, okay?
Now the requirements for Docker for Mac and Windows
that are could be considered a little bit strict.
Well, for Mac is 10.10+ or Yosemite onwards;
and for Windows, you need Windows 10 64-bit.
So we understand that this could be limitations
for certain laptops that are in the corporate IT
and that have not yet upgraded to these operating systems,
so then there are varieties and options for that.
Docker comes in two editions:
Docker Community Edition and the Docker Enterprise Edition.
Docker Community Edition is ideal for developers
and small teams that are looking to get started
with Docker and experimenting with container-based apps.
It's a free and open-source version of Docker,
as it's more popularly known;
and it meant for teams that are do-it-yourself
for developer and ops.
Docker Enterprise Edition on the other side
is designed for enterprise development and IT teams
who build, ship, and run business critical applications
and productions are scaled.
It gives you certified infrastructure,
plug-ins, and containers;
and there is commercial support available
for enterprises running critical applications
in production for you.
Let's take a look at Docker Community Edition,
since that's the one that we going to be using for this course.
Well, the Docker Community Edition is available
for Mac, Windows, and Linux;
the three primary platforms that we would care about.
It gives you a native desktop experience.
That means you can run it on your local desktop
or in the cloud, where there is AWS or Azure.
It provides all those experiences very seamlessly.
In terms of the release cycle,
there is a monthly Edge release cycle
and a quarterly Stable release cycle.
So every month, there is a bleeding edge built
that is pushed out by Docker.
So if you're using Docker for Mac, for example,
then you will have the Docker for Mac
native application installed on your machine;
and every month Docker will push that bill to you.
Same thing for Windows and Linux as well.
Or if you want a Stable bill,
where you don't want to be in the bleeding edge,
then you can install the Stable download;
and Docker will push you updates
typically about every quarter.
Docker Enterprise Edition, on the other side,
is doing releases every quarter;
and each release is supported for a year.
Now the actual release cycle, the support lifecycle,
that may change; so I would recommend going back
to Docker.com for the latest updates on that.
Just to give a better idea,
in a given calendar year, say January through December,
you know, you will have a CE Edge release every month.
Every third release in the year,
starting from March 2017 essentially,
will be Docker CE Stable;
and then there will be a corresponding Docker EE as well.
Now the CE Stable will be supported for about four months;
and then, in the meanwhile, the next CE Stable
to release would be available to you as well.
Docker EE, as I said earlier,
is currently supported for year.
Now, I'm on Docker.com website.
As you can see, right on the main page itself,
it says download Docker Community Edition
or the Enterprise Edition.
Let's click on the get Docker Community Edition link here.
As you can see, it gives more details
about what Community Edition features are.
If you scroll further, it gives you
how you can easily run Docker on your desktop.
If you consider a typical desktop to be Mac and Windows,
then there is Docker CE for Mac and Docker CE for Windows.
You can download either of these bills, Mac or Windows,
from your Docker store.
Well, you need to have a credentials in Docker store,
and those can be easily created.
If you want to run on Linux servers,
then four major flavors of Linux are supported over here.
So you can see Docker CE for Centos,
Debian, Fedora, and Ubuntu.
Now the list may get updated by the time
this course is released; so, again,
I would recommend go to Docker.com
to see the updated list and the experience.
And finally, on the cloud, Amazon web services
and Microsoft Azure are the two platforms
where there are Docker CE bills available.
In a later section, we'll talk about
how can we get started with Docker CE for AWS.
Now, if we go back, we can look at
Get Docker Enterprise Edition;
and, again, it gives you more details
about what are the features that are coming
as part of Docker Enterprise Edition.
In order to get started, you click on view pricing.
You can either get started for free,
there's a 30-day evaluation version;
or you can buy online in Docker store.
For this video course, we will only use
the Docker Community Edition;
and that version is available for free on the Docker store.
Now, as I said, Docker for Mac and Windows
have little clear requirements;
and if you are somehow not able to meet those requirements,
then you can download Docker toolbox.
What is Docker toolbox?
Docker toolbox is a loosely composed
set of tools put together.
Essentially it has Docker engine; it has Docker machine.
Well, Docker machine is a CLI that is included
as part of Docker toolbox that creates a VirtualBox VM
for you or that allows you to simulate
Docker engine environment on your Mac or your Windows.
It could use VirtualBox as a virtualization provider,
and there are other virtualization providers
that are available as well, which we'll talk in a second.
It also has Docker Compose,
which we'll cover in a later chapter,
but allows you to essentially run
multi container applications very easily.
Docker Kitematic is a simple UI
that allows you to manage your VMs
and VirtualBox is included for the simplicity of it,
so that you have one seamless experience over there.
And then there is a Quickstart Terminal
that is already available for you,
which is pre-configured to talk to that Docker machine.
Now we talked about Docker machine.
Let's take a look at how do we create this Docker Machine.
Well, the command line is included for you,
which is docker-machine;
and you say docker-machine create,
and then you need to specify a driver.
So you can say the driver is VirtualBox, for example.
In this case, the Docker Machine
will create a VirtualBox VM for you.
It'll install all the Docker components as part of it,
and the machine name is specified
at that last part of the CLI.
In this case, it's myhost.
Then, you can configure your Docker client
to talk to this host.
You can create and pull images.
Now in this case what's happening is
your client and your Docker host or the Docker engine
are sitting on the same machine,
which is pretty good actually for local development.
You can start, stop, restart containers;
and it gives you an ability to test everything
on your local laptop without thinking about
cloud or any other environment.
You can also upgrade Docker because
let's say you create a Docker machine
using a certain version and now Docker has released
a new version that is the capability
by which the Docker machine can be upgraded
or the docker daemon version can be upgraded as well.
One of the things that I love
about Docker machine is how not only
it allows you to create Docker engine
using VirtualBox provider, but look at
the variety of providers that it gives you.
So you can use Docker machine, for example, to say,
okay, create a Docker machine using AWS provider
or EC2 provider or a GCE provider or an Azure provider.
So, essentially you can create Docker machine
using VirtualBox on your local box; that is cool.
And now you're ready to test on a cloud.
You just change the provider,
and now it's going to get provisioned on EC2
or Google Cloud or Rackspace.
So that capability and that functionality
is very, very handy.
So, let's take a look at it on how
we can easily get started with Docker machine.
Now I'm going to switch to terminal,
and I'm going to show you how to create a Docker machine.
All right, so now we are in terminal.
If we take a look at it, we say docker-machine --version.
It shows what Docker machine version we got here, okay?
So now I am going to say docker-machine create,
and I'm going to give it a driver, -d, call it VirtualBox;
and I'm going to call it as myhost,
as we were showing in the slides.
So I give this command, and I press an enter.
Now here, as you can see,
it's downloading github.com/boot2docker version.
Once the VM is downloaded--
well, boot2docker.iso essentially is the ISO,
which is a tiny Linux VM that is actually used
to create the VirtualBox VM.
So ISO is the basic image.
It uses VirtualBox and ISO combination
to create the VM for you.
Now this will take some time to create and provide an IP,
so we'll just move forward.
All right, now our Docker machine is created.
You can see the commands are prepended by myhost,
and now the operating system is identified, you know,
it uses boot2docker to provision the machine;
and now everything is running.
Now, let me show you something here.
So, if I do env and I do grep on Docker here, okay;
well, let's clear up the screen for a second
so that we can see the commands clearly.
So now when I do env and I do grep on Docker;
there is nothing over there, okay?
But how do I configure my client to talk to Docker host?
So what I do is I say docker-machine env myhost, okay?
There are a bunch of commands that are available over here.
We're not going to go into the details;
but I can say myhost,
and it shows me a lot of commands over here.
But, essentially, my Docker CLI is looking
at all of these different environment variables
to configure on where the Docker host is living.
So what I'm going to do here is
I am going to literally copy this command here,
and I'm going to paste it here.
All it's saying is, okay, take those environment variables
and set it as part of my environment.
And I eval it, and now when I do a env and grep on Docker,
those variables are set for me.
So now when I say Docker image ls,
and we'll talk about these commands in the next chapter;
but, basically, this command shows
how can you show the listing of all the images
on the Docker host, which in our case is Docker machine.
Boom, it shows no images exist;
and that is true because we haven't created any images.
We haven't downloaded any images so far,
but at least it shows how can you configure
your Docker CLI to talk to the Docker machine very easily.
And, by the way, one thing that we forgot to mention
is the Docker CLI in our case, of course,
is available as part of Docker for Mac.
So we download it from Docker for Mac.
That's how our Docker CLI is available to us.
All right?
So hopefully you understood the basic concepts.
In this case, we are using a Mac;
but the same concepts would apply
on a Linux or a Windows as well very easily.
Well, of course, they would be different
in terms of how would you set the eval
because in this case eval is a Unix command.
So you will have a similar command in the Windows, as well;
and typically you would not need a Docker machine
on a Linux Box because you have native AppGate
and yum installed tools over there.
But just to kind of provide a more holistic experience;
once your CLI and your host is ready,
the Docker command would work independent
across different hosts.